E-Commerce Sales Analysis using SQL

Overview -:
This project analyzes an e-commerce dataset to extract meaningful business insights using SQL. The objective is to understand customer behavior, sales performance, and operational efficiency to support data-driven decision-making.

Objectives -:

1. Analyze revenue trends over time
2. Identify top-performing products and categories
3. Segment customers based on spending behavior
4. Evaluate city-wise sales performance
5. Analyze payment methods
6. Calculate key KPIs like Average Order Value and Costumer Life Time Value

Database Schema -:

create table salesdata(
order_id int primary key,
customer_id varchar(50),
order_date varchar(50),
product_category varchar(50),
Product_name varchar(50),
Quantity int,
Unit_Price int,
Total_Price int,	
Payment_Type varchar(50),
Delivery_Days int,
Customer_City varchar(50)
);

Key Analysis & Insights -:

1. Revenue Trend Analysis
A) Monthly revenue shows consistent performance with peak sales during mid-year
B) Indicates seasonal demand patterns
D:\SQL Project Details

2. Top Categories
A) Electronics is the highest revenue-generating category
B) Clothing contributes the least
D:\SQL Project Details

Business Insight:
Invest more in high-margin categories like Electronics

3. Customer Spending
A) A small group of customers contributes a large portion of revenue
D:\SQL Project Details

4. City-wise Performance
A) Chennai, Delhi, and Bhopal are top-performing cities
D:\SQL Project Details

Business Insight:
Target these cities for expansion and promotions

5. Payment Analysis
A) Cash on Delivery (COD) is the most used payment method
D:\SQL Project Details

Business Insight:
Improve logistics and reduce COD dependency by promoting digital payments

6. Product Analysis
A) Products like Mouse, Perfume, and Headphones are top sellers
D:\SQL Project Details

7. Average Order Value (AOV)
A) AOV indicates strong purchasing behavior
D:\SQL Project Details

8. Customer Retention
A) Majority of customers are repeat buyers
D:\SQL Project Details

9. Orders Below Category Average
A) Categories like Electronics (high-value) may still have low-value orders due to small accessories
B) Some orders within each category are generating below-average revenue
D:\SQL Project Details

Tools & Technologies-:

1. SQL (MySQL) 
2. Excel (Data Cleaning)
3. GitHub (Project Hosting)

